# [PE_0094](../PE_0094.java)

For an isosceles triangle with sides $(a, a, b)$ the area is $\sqrt{a^2 - \frac{b^2}{4}} \cdot \frac{b}{2}$, where $\sqrt{a^2 - \frac{b^2}{4}}$ is the height $h$.

## $b$ is even, $h$ is an integer
**Lemma**: $b$ must be even, and $h$ must be an integer.

**Proof**:  
First, if $b$ is odd, $b = 2b_0 + 1$, then $h = \sqrt{a^2 - b_0^2 - b_0 - \frac{1}{4}}$. Since $a$ and $b_0$ are integers, $h = \sqrt{x + \frac{3}{4}} = \sqrt{\frac{4x + 3}{4}} = \frac{\sqrt{4x + 3}}{2}$, where $x$ is an integer. The square root of an integer is either an integer, or irrational, so for $h$ to be rational, $4x + 3$ must be a square, i.e. for some $m$, $m^2 = 4x + 3 \Rightarrow m^2 \equiv 3 \pmod{4}$.  
If $m \equiv 0 \pmod{4}$ or $m \equiv 2 \pmod{4}$, then $m^2 \equiv 0 \pmod{4}$.  
If $m \equiv 1 \pmod{4}$ or $m \equiv 3 \pmod{4}$, then $m^2 \equiv 1 \pmod{4}$.  
Then $h$ cannot be rational, meaning $b$ cannot be odd.

Therefore, $b$ is even, $b = 2b_0$, and $h = \sqrt{a^2 - b_0^2}$. Since $a^2 - b_0^2$ is an integer, $h$ must be either integer or irrational. For the $h \cdot \frac{b}{2}$ to be an integer, $h$ must be rational. Therefore, $h$ must be an integer.

This means we're looking for triples $(b_0, a, h)$ so that $b_0^2 + h^2 = a^2$.

## Almost equilateral
For a triangle to be almost equilateral, we need $a = 2b_0 \pm 1$, meaning $b_0^2 + h^2 = 4b_0^2 \pm 4b_0 + 1 \Rightarrow 3b_0^2 \pm 4b_0 - (h^2 - 1)$. Applying the quadratic formula gives us 
$$b_0 = \frac{\pm 4 \pm \sqrt{16 + 12(h^2 - 1)}}{6} = \frac{\pm 2 \pm \sqrt{3h^2 + 1)}}{3}$$
Note that the two $\pm$ signs are independent of each other. However, since $b_0$ must be positive and $2 \le \sqrt{3h^2 + 1}$, we can simplify to
$$b_0 = \frac{\sqrt{3h^2 + 1}  \pm  2}{3}$$
Regardless of the $\pm$ sign, we need $3h^2 + 1 = m^2$ for some integer $m$. Rearranging as $m^2 - 3h^2 = 1$ gives us a standard Pell equation. After finding the fundamental solution $(m, h) = (2, 1)$, we can recursively generate next solutions while the perimeter $P$ doesn't exceed a given limit $L$. On each iteration, we must check whether $m + 2$ or $m - 2$ is divisible by $3$, for $b_0$ to have an integer solution.

## $P \le L$
An almost equilateral triangle's perimeter $P$ will be $b + 2a = 6b_0 \pm 2$. $b_0 = \frac{m \pm 2}{3} \Rightarrow P = 2m \pm 6$ (because the $\pm$ in both expressions is dependent on whether $a < b$, they can be combined).