# [PE_997](../PE_997.java)

A die has $3$ face-pairs $(1, 6)$, $(2, 5)$, or $(3, 4)$. Let $x$-axis, $y$-axis, and $z$-axis correspond to the $x$, $y$, $z$ lengths of the box.

Let us first go through the cases for lower dimensions.  

With one dimension (a single row of dice along the $z$-axis), the first die can have any of $24$ rotations (six ways to select a given face and then four ways to rotate around that face-pair). Hence, $f(1, 1, 1) = 24$. Any following die will have its touching face "locked", as well as the opposite face, but it can still rotate four ways around the face-pair. In other words, any following die will have the same face-pair along the $z$-axis.  
Then, 
$$f(1, 1, z) = 24 \cdot 4^{z-1}$$  

With two dimensions (a single layer of dice on the $yz$-plane), let's focus on setting up the first row of the layer:
- There are $24 \cdot 4^{z-1}$ ways to arrange the first row.
- For the second (and any following) rows, only the first die will have more than one possible rotation, as any following dice will be "locked" on two sides, uniquely determining their rotation. Now we look at the $y$-axis face-pairs of the previous row:
  - If, over the whole row, there are two distinct face-pairs, there is only one possible face-pair remaining for the $y$-axis, i.e. two possible orientations.
  - If there is only one distinct face-pair, there are two possible face-pairs remaining for the $y$-axis, i.e. four possible orientations.
- There are $24 \cdot 2^{z-1}$ ways to arrange the first row so that all faces on the $y$-axis are on the same face-pair. Then there are $24 \cdot 4^{z-1} - 24 \cdot 2^{z-1} = 24 \cdot 2^{z-1} \cdot (2^{z - 1} - 1)$ ways to arrange the first row so that the faces are on two face-pairs.
- Note that whether the faces are on one or two face-pairs will persist through the following rows, meaning each following row will have either $2$ or $4$ variations depending on the first row.

Then,
$$f(1, y, z) = $$ 
$$ = 24 \cdot 2^{z-1} \cdot 4^{y-1} + 24 \cdot 2^{z-1} \cdot (2^{z - 1} - 1) \cdot 2^{y-1} = $$
$$ = 3 \cdot 2^z \cdot 2^y \cdot (2^y + 2^z - 2)$$

With three dimensions, the question becomes whether over the whole $yz$-plane, there is one or two distinct face-pairs.
- With two distinct face-pairs, there is only one possible face-pair remaining for the $x$-axis, i.e. two possible orientations.
- With one distinct face-pair, there are two possible face-pairs remaining for the $x$-axis, i.e. four possible orientations.
- There are $24 \cdot 2^{y-1} \cdot 2^{z-1} = 6 \cdot 2^y \cdot 2^z$ ways to arrange the first layer so that all faces on the $x$-axis are on the same face-pair. Then there are $3 \cdot 2^y \cdot 2^z \cdot (2^y + 2^z - 2) - 6 \cdot 2^y \cdot 2^z = 3 \cdot 2^y \cdot 2^z \cdot (2^y + 2^z - 4)$ ways to arrange the first layer so that the faces are on two face-pairs.

Then,
$$f(x, y, z) = $$
$$ = 6 \cdot 2^y \cdot 2^z \cdot 4^{x-1} + 3 \cdot 2^y \cdot 2^z \cdot (2^y + 2^z - 4) \cdot 2^{x-1} = $$
$$ = 3 \cdot 2^{x+y+z-1} \cdot (2^x + 2^y + 2^z - 4)$$